---
title: "WRIR 97.3 FM, Richmond Independent Radio"
date: 2020-03-12T12:33:46+10:00
layout: post
category: multimedia
img: /images/multimedia/wrir-computers-floor.jpg
caption: Computers sit on the floor of the Operations workshop at WRIR, waiting to be repurposed (Zachary Klosko/WRIR)
excerpt: A community radio station and a Coronavirus. With volunteers in quarantine, how could we stay on the air? It's quite simple, really.
---

WRIR is a community radio station in Richmond, VA, and one of the largest low-power FM stations
in the United States.

As the Coronavirus descended upon us, we began to brainstorm ways that we could prepare our
station for a potential shutdown. How could we continue broadcasting if volunteers weren't 
able to make it to the station during the pandemic?

> Our journey to prepare for the pandemic was covered in our station newsletter; download a
copy [here](/assets/pdfs/WRIR-Goes-Remote.pdf).

# Objectives

1. **Allow remote access to critical station resources**. We need to make sure volunteers have access network shares and station computers.
2. **Plan for remote broadcasting**. Our volunteers are used to broadcasting live from the studio. We need to make sure they can feel comfortable performing the same tasks from home.
3. **Plan for remote playout scheduling**. WRIR typically has board operators in studio while pre-recorded shows are playing out. We need to make sure we can do that from home.

# Tools

- Adobe Audition, for recording and editing PSAs and programs
- Libretime, for remote playout scheduling
- Ubuntu Server, Apache httpd, NGINX, Icecast, and custom Bash scripting, for building and running our station's backend
- Radio Systems Consoles, for mixing live shows and playout of prerecorded programs